
 the prevalence of mental health issues among teenagers




Many adolescents experience positive mental health, but an estimated 49.5 percent of adolescents has had a mental health disorder at
 some point in their lives The good news is that promoting positive mental health can prevent some problems. For young people who
 do have mental health disorders, early intervention and treatment can help lessen the impact on their lives.

It is a normal part of development for teens to experience a wide range of emotions. It is typical, for instance, for teens to feel 
anxious about school or friendships, or to experience a period of depression following the death of a close friend or family member.
 However, mental health disorders are characterized by persistent symptoms that affect how a young person feels, thinks, and acts. 
Mental health disorders also can interfere with regular activities and daily functioning, such as relationships, schoolwork, sleeping,
 and eating.


common mental heath issues among the youth

1Anxiety disorders

2Depression

3Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)

WHAT IS ANXIETY DISORDER


[Occasional anxiety is a normal part of life. Many people worry about things such as health, money, or family problems. But anxiety 
disorders involve more than temporary worry or fear. For people with an anxiety disorder, the anxiety does not go away and can get
 worse over time. The symptoms can interfere with daily activities such as job performance, schoolwork, and relationships.

There are several types of anxiety disorders, including generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder, social anxiety disorder, and 
various phobia-related disorders.]

{1Characterized by feelings of excessive uneasiness, worry, and fear

2Examples include generalized anxiety disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder
and phobias

3Occur in approximately 32 percent of 13- to 18-year-olds

4In 2016, roughly 11 percent of adolescents ages 12-17 and 7 percent of children ages 6-11 had a current anxiety disorder diagnosis}

WHAT IS DEPRESSION

Depression is a common but serious mood disorder. It causes severe symptoms that affect how a person feels, thinks, and handles
daily activities, such as sleeping, eating, or working.

1Depressed mood that affects thoughts, feelings, and daily activities, including eating, sleeping, and working

2Occurs in approximately 13 percent of 12- to 17-year-olds

3Examples include major depressive disorder and seasonal affective disorder


WHAT IS Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is marked by an ongoing pattern of inattention and/or
hyperactivity-impulsivity that interferes with functioning or development.

1Characterized by continued inattention and/or hyperactivity-impulsivity that interferes with daily functioning or development

2Occurs in approximately nine percent of 13- to 18-year-olds


